Rewrite transaction docs for address balances and tx.coin/tx.balance (#897)
MystenLabs/ts-sdks: packages/docs/content/sui/transactions/basics.mdx

---
title: Building Transactions
description: Construct programmable transaction blocks with the Transaction API
---

Every interaction with the Sui network goes through a transaction. Sui transactions are
[programmable transaction blocks (PTBs)](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/transactions/prog-txn-blocks)
— a sequence of commands that execute on inputs to produce a result. Commands within a transaction
can call Move functions, transfer objects, split and merge coins, and more. You can chain the result
of one command into a subsequent command, composing complex operations in a single transaction.

All commands in a transaction execute atomically: if any command fails, the entire transaction is

> rolled back and none of its effects are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every interaction with the Sui network goes through a transaction. Sui transactions are a sequence of commands called [programmable transaction blocks (PTBs)](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/transactions/prog-txn-blocks) that execute on inputs to produce a result. Commands within a transaction can call Move functions, transfer objects, split and merge coins, and more. You can chain the result
of one command into a subsequent command, composing complex operations in a single transaction.

All commands in a transaction execute atomically. If any command fails, the entire transaction is
rolled back and none of its effects are applied.
```

> For a deeper look at the transaction model, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on transaction model, see the
```

[Sui documentation on PTBs](https://docs.sui.io/guides/developer/transactions/prog-txn-blocks) and
[inputs and results](https://docs.sui.io/concepts/transactions/inputs-and-results).

## Creating a transaction

Import the `Transaction` class and create a new instance:

```typescript
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';

const tx = new Transaction();
```

## Sending SUI

> The preferred way to send SUI is with `tx.balance()` and `balance::send_funds`, which deposits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to send SUI is with `tx.balance()` and `balance::send_funds`, which deposits
```

directly into the recipient's address balance:

```typescript
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';
import { MIST_PER_SUI } from '@mysten/sui/utils';

const tx = new Transaction();

tx.moveCall({
	target: '0x2::balance::send_funds',
	typeArguments: ['0x2::sui::SUI'],
	arguments: [tx.balance({ balance: 1n * MIST_PER_SUI }), tx.pure.address('0xRecipientAddress')],
});
```

If the recipient needs a `Coin<T>` object, use `tx.coin()` with `transferObjects` instead:

```typescript
tx.transferObjects([tx.coin({ balance: 1n * MIST_PER_SUI })], '0xRecipientAddress');
```

> Both `tx.balance()` and `tx.coin()` automatically draw from your coin objects and address balances —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both `tx.balance()` and `tx.coin()` automatically draw from your coin objects and address balances.
```

> you don't need to manage individual coins yourself. See [Coins and Balances](./coins-and-balances)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need to manage individual coins yourself. See [Coins and Balances](./coins-and-balances)
```

for full details.

## Sending other tokens

> The same patterns work for non-SUI tokens — pass the coin type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For non-SUI tokens, use the same patterns for passing the coin type: 
```

	arguments: [tx.pure.string('hello'), tx.object('0xSomeObjectId')],
});
```

### Using codegen for type-safe calls

The [`@mysten/codegen`](/codegen) package generates type-safe TypeScript functions from your Move
packages. Instead of writing `moveCall` with string targets and manual argument construction, use
`tx.add()` with generated functions:

```typescript
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';
import * as counter from './contracts/counter/counter';

const tx = new Transaction();
tx.add(
	counter.increment({
		arguments: {
			counter: '0x123...', // Counter object ID
		},
	}),
);
```

This gives you IDE autocompletion, compile-time type checking for arguments, and eliminates
incorrect target strings. See the [codegen documentation](/codegen) for setup instructions.

### Return values

Commands return results that you can use as input to subsequent commands. For example, `splitCoins`
returns the new coins it creates:

```typescript
const tx = new Transaction();

// splitCoins returns one result per amount
const [coin] = tx.splitCoins(tx.gas, [1_000_000]);

// Use that result as input to another command
tx.transferObjects([coin], '0xRecipientAddress');
```

> `moveCall` works the same way — when a Move function returns a value, you can capture it and pass it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`moveCall` works the same way. When a Move function returns a value, you can capture it and pass it
```

to the next command:

```typescript
const [nft] = tx.moveCall({
	target: '0xPackageId::nft::mint',
	arguments: [tx.pure.string('My NFT'), tx.pure.string('Description')],
});

tx.transferObjects([nft], '0xRecipientAddress');
```

When a command returns multiple values, destructure or index into the result:

```typescript
// Destructuring
const [nft1, nft2] = tx.moveCall({ target: '0xPackageId::nft::mint_pair' });

// Or indexing
const result = tx.moveCall({ target: '0xPackageId::nft::mint_pair' });
const firstNft = result[0];
const secondNft = result[1];
```

<Callout type="warn">

> 	Transaction results are lazy generators — always access elements by index or destructuring. Do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Always access elements by index or destructuring. Do not
```

	use the spread operator (`...result`) or pass results to `Array.from()`, as this will cause an
	infinite loop.
</Callout>

### Type arguments

Some Move functions have generic type parameters. Pass them with `typeArguments`:

```typescript
tx.moveCall({
	target: '0x2::coin::split',
	typeArguments: ['0x2::sui::SUI'],
	arguments: [tx.object('0xCoinId'), tx.pure.u64(1000)],
});
```

## Chaining commands

The result of any command can be used as input to a subsequent command — this is what makes

> transactions _programmable_. You can compose multiple operations into a single atomic transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result of any command can be used as input to a subsequent command. This is what makes
transactions **programmable**. You can compose multiple operations into a single atomic transaction:
```

```typescript
const tx = new Transaction();

// Mint an NFT
const [nft] = tx.moveCall({
	target: '0xPackageId::nft::mint',
	arguments: [tx.pure.string('My NFT')],
});

// Set a property on it
tx.moveCall({
	target: '0xPackageId::nft::set_description',
	arguments: [nft, tx.pure.string('A nice NFT')],
});

// Transfer it to someone
tx.transferObjects([nft], '0xRecipientAddress');
```

## Batch transfers

> You can send tokens to multiple recipients in a single transaction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send tokens to multiple recipients in a single transaction:
```

```typescript
import { Transaction } from '@mysten/sui/transactions';

const transfers = [
	{ to: '0xAlice', amount: 1_000_000_000 },
	{ to: '0xBob', amount: 2_000_000_000 },
	{ to: '0xCarol', amount: 500_000_000 },
];

const tx = new Transaction();

for (const transfer of transfers) {
	// Send to address balances (preferred)
	tx.moveCall({
		target: '0x2::balance::send_funds',
		typeArguments: ['0x2::sui::SUI'],
		arguments: [tx.balance({ balance: transfer.amount }), tx.pure.address(transfer.to)],
	});
}

// Or send as coin objects
for (const transfer of transfers) {
	tx.transferObjects([tx.coin({ balance: transfer.amount })], transfer.to);
}
```

## Composable transaction building with thunks

> The `tx.add()` method accepts thunks — functions that receive the transaction and add commands to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tx.add()` method accepts thunks, which are functions that receive the transaction and add commands to
```

it. This enables building reusable, composable transaction pieces:

```typescript
function mintNft(name: string) {
	return (tx: Transaction) => {
		return tx.moveCall({
			target: '0xPackage::nft::mint',
			arguments: [tx.pure.string(name)],
		});
	};
}

const tx = new Transaction();
const [nft] = tx.add(mintNft('My NFT'));
tx.transferObjects([nft], '0xRecipientAddress');
```

> See [SDK Building](/sui/sdk-building) for more on building composable transaction libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [SDK Building](/sui/sdk-building) for more information on building composable transaction libraries.
```

## Serializing transactions

> You can serialize a transaction to JSON for storage, transmission, or later reconstruction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serialize a transaction to JSON for storage, transmission, or later reconstruction:
```

```typescript
// Serialize to JSON — with a client, resolves any unresolved data first
const json = await tx.toJSON({ client: grpcClient });

// Serialize without a client — intents like tx.coin() are preserved as-is
const json = await tx.toJSON();

// Reconstruct from JSON
const tx = Transaction.from(json);
```

This is useful for passing transactions between a frontend and backend, or for storing pre-built
transactions.

## Executing transactions

Once you've built a transaction, see [Signing and Execution](./signing-and-execution) for all the

> ways to sign and submit it — keypairs, dApp Kit hooks, sponsored transactions, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ways to sign and submit it, such as keypairs, dApp Kit hooks, sponsored transactions, and more.
```
